The Joe Rogan experience. So when.
You were the first guy that I knew that was really into yoga back then,
I knew Hixon. Like when that documentary choke came out was great document.
That was a great documentary and showed how much jujitsu and yoga
together made Hicks in this really incredible forest.
So it was the yoga had affected his mind in this great way cause he was able to
meditate and he would do all these incredible yoga poses.
He was so flexible and he had such dexterity of his arms and legs. I mean,
a lot of people got excited about yoga because of Hixon,
but you were the first guy that I knew that really went so deep into it.
You actually became an instructor. Cause when I first knew you,
I knew that you were in a band and that you,
you did yoga then a little bit because everybody called you yoga Ray.
But it's like, I felt like you were on this path and this,
this yoga packet tell and then paying attention to on social media and following
you. It's like, well, he's really into this.
I remember when you were moving to New York,
we had talked online and you were going out there to teach jujitsu or excuse
me, a yoga. And I was like, I don't even think he does jujitsu anymore.
I think he's just all doing yoga now. And that's what happened, right? Oh,
I did, uh.
Music for most of my life. Um, with the youth of today,
youth of today was the band before I became a monk. And then I,
and at the height of that career,
this was a New York city hardcore straight edge band. We didn't drink,
we didn't smoke. And we, you know, we're all,
oh, that's me. Yeah. In a more relaxed form. That's a good photo.
So that's what I did as, and, and um, the idea of the band,
we were teenagers. We were all teenagers, me and my, uh, my bed buddy Parma,
Nanda, who also later moved into an Ostrom. So, uh,
we started this when we were 16, 17, and, um,
it was a cool scene making our own music and stuff like that.
But when we got youth of today together,
it was about sort of a message of better living,
positive mental attitude. Um,
these spiritual principles like karma and what goes around, comes around and,
uh, uh, respect, dignity, um, uh,
controlling your senses and your mind. And what, what led you to that? Oh,
no.
Really. No.
I've always been interested in my idea of a good time was this was like eighties
in New York city.
Was it find these like ISTE Westy bookstores that have books on
yoga and metaphysics and reincarnation and just plop it down and read
books all afternoon by Swami's and solders and weirdos and Palm
readers and stuff like that. That's my idea of what a good time was.
And I always felt like life is meant for our self
edification. That's why we're here. We're here on a mission of growth.
And when I, when I read books by sages or mystics and things like that,
I was always like, I want to be like that. That's what I want to be.
That's bigger than anything out there that I want to be. So truthfully,
the band, I never really want, I'm not a musician.
I play a little bit of everything. I wrote all the songs,
but I always looked at myself as more like a seeker and it made me a
spokesperson. But then at a certain point in the success of that,
the band I started realizing, okay, now we're big.
And there's a lot of people who are following those sort of principles of
controlling your senses. We don't drink, we don't smoke. We, uh,
we don't take drugs. Uh we're uh, you know, w we can care about what we eat,
but that's not the goal. That's like a doorway to something bigger.
And so for me, I had to step away from that,
that even though it wasn't bad or anything,
it wasn't what I wanted to become. And it was a certain point in my life.
You know, you get to a certain end of a chapter in your life. And for me,
and at the time it was the height of the bands career here as well.
We started touring internationally and stuff like that,
but I realized there was no amount. And by the way,
this was eighties in New York, which is a very cool time run DMC, Madonna,
the Beastie boys. You never knew like what was about to like blow up.
And you were with all these other people that they were your inspiration and
they were your friends and stuff like that, that, so, uh,
at that, that heightened excitement, I just said,
there is no amount of like material success,
one that's going to fill sort of like a God shaped hole in my heart.
There's no thing out there that I want. And it was,
it was also a very precarious time in my life. Um,
not precarious, but, uh,
a time where my father went into a coma for three years. Oh, Jesus.
I know it's hard. So horrible to even say that, think about it.
What happened was he got some unknown lung lung infection was young
64 unknown lung infection.
And there was some neglect in the hospital and
his lung collapsed.
And so comas are one of these places where you don't see Don dead he's is he
alive?
And it's so confusing for a person that loves that person,
how to even react. And, uh, you know, in, uh,
I'll say in a humiliating way, I couldn't really, I couldn't deal with it.
And I sort of shut myself off. And, um,
I went and just started working on my music, something I could do.
And then at his death, when he finally left his body,
I was cultivating a strong desire to go to India and, and study more.
And I was, at that time, it was also studying yoga, Ayurvedic medicine.
So he went into a coma three years for years.
Fired. And then when he died at the end of the coma at the never came out, came.
Out of the coma. And then when he, when he left his body,
I decided I'm going to India. Now, this is, that was assigned for me.
And I quit the band.
This is at the peak of the band.
It was at the peak of youth today, was that hard to walk away from all that.
I was at a point where I was saying,
and you've probably experienced this too. And I'm sure Eddie probably does too.
Sometimes when you become very successful at something, that same thing sorts,
the thing that you love, so it can eat away at you as well. Um, sometimes,
sometimes the peep I'll share it. I'll share with you how I have. I saw it.
I remember sitting in an Ostrom on 24th street. She and under Ostrom,
she even on there was like a, uh, a Swami. He came, he traveled the world.
He taught the teachings of yoga outside, uh, India. And he wrote lots of books.
And there's a library of books were bookstore up on 24th street where he
has an Ostrom in New York city.
And I remember reading this one quote by him in the midst of,
uh, my life is in a band and being a teenager living in New York city.
And it was before you first.
So the first one was really interesting. Where is your happiness coming from?
Is it coming from your day-to-day living? Or is it just happiness from your ego?
And I thought, where is my happiness coming from?
Is it from me being a person that I want to be? Is it from,
you know, people, people nowadays, they collect houses.
They collect cars that collect so many things. I collected records.
I collected rare punk records. And in my brain, I thought, oh man, this,
and you understand what the music scene was like,
that if you're unfamiliar with it, there was a band that was great.
And they'd put out 1007 inch records and then the band broke up.
If the punk scene always grew.
So these records you bought for two bucks are now worth.
People pay a hundred dollars for that record.
And so me and my guitar player per cell,
we had like thousands of incredibly rare punk records that if you remember the
world of records, no one played the records. Cause you could damage them.
What you did was you put everything on a cassette.
And so I started thinking about this quote by the Swami, who said,
man, where am I getting my pleasure from? I'm thinking, well, my, my,
my records are pleasurable. I was like, well, actually the music's pleasurable.
The records are only pleasurable.
When somebody comes over my house and says, oh my God, you've got that record.
That rare records impossible.
And so once I've read that it was the first shattering of my
concept of self and where,
what is joy and what is pleasure based on my ego and all those
records that are really valued.
And I have really valuable records and we started our own record company at the
time. So we would basically print limited additions of their band.
We put out all our friends records, sick of it, all gorilla biscuits, um,
Israel bands that we grew up with our own band youth of today.
And so we put out these records we'd make limited edition.
And then we trade these.
It's like printing your own currency basically to make a long story short.
After I've read that one, quote, my whole concept of pleasure changed.
And I took all those records and I threw them out on stage,
all fans record collector fans. It was, but it was so.
All the rare ones, it was so liberating.
For me to do that.
And it was like the sh it was like maybe like the first attempt of shedding my
ego. That was a roundabout story.
But the second part of that, that Swami wrote was, um,
and I'm paraphrasing this of course, um,
the diseases of the soul are not new.
They're ancient. The soul is pure. The spirit is pure,
but it gets covered by lust, greed, anger, and envy.
And I started thinking, well, not me, less lusty.
I'm not greedy. I'm not angry. I'm in a band. I have no money. You know,
and if you've ever been in the band, it costs money to buy a guitar,
got a guitar costs, money to buy strings, got strings, cost money to buy an amp.
So it's just like, it's a money pit to be in a band.
You get paid 50 bucks or whatever.
So I thinking not me, but as my band got more successful,
I, I realized, man, I do have,
there is money out there that I want.
And I remember I got offered money for the first time being in a band.
Wow. I get money. I should get, you know, I wrote these songs.
I should get more of that money.
And you get in a fight with the drummer. No, I should get that money.
We should split four ways. No, wait. I do so much more.
I book everything and I realized, wow, I, wasn't not greedy.
I just had no money. I'm covered with greed.
All these people hate the greedy hate the rich,
the 1% you got to see what would happen if you were in that position.
Yeah. So that was like my first lesson in like,
actually I'm complete. I thought I was above it. Cause I didn't drink.
Cause I didn't smoke. Cause I was a vegetarian.
Big deal, big deal.
And it was this and the spirituality starts to work on these subtle things that
are plaguing me. And you know,
the people are really want social justice out there.
There it's very easy to point the finger at everybody and watch what everybody
else is doing wrong. But in, on, on the yoga path,
it's about like putting the microscope on ourself.
Where am I wrong if I really want to change?
How can I start to really do some psychic surgery of my own ego
of all these other things that are, that are, that are baked onto the spirit.
So anyway, that was, I can't remember how you got on that tangent. Sorry.
I'm I go on tangents.
A lot. Feel free to go on Tinder. So that was a.
That was my first like glimpse of like where I'm at.
And so my point was my success. Oh, you S you said,
what was it hard to give up the band? And I was like, no, I was so over it.
I was over because here's another one envy that plagues the soul, they say.
So there's P there's people that are looking up to Joe Rogan.
I want to be like that. And there's people that maybe you're looking,
although you're pretty big right now.
I don't know if you're looking up to anybody, but,
but they're the feeling like in a corporate world where someone wants your
position and that plagues a person, a person who's
not gracious or a person who's like, there's a scarcity mentality. There.
There's a younger, I know in the music world,
there's a band coming up and there's a band I want to get to.
And I realized that all these real subtle things,
they were plaguing my heart and these are the things I wanted to work on.
And um, yeah.
So, yeah. Was it hard to give up? No, it wasn't. It was great.
I relinquished it. You were on like.
A spiritual quest. I mean a legitimate one.
People talk about that kind of stuff all the time.
Like getting spiritual or being on a spiritual quest, but you,
you legitimately went on this quest and that's why I've found it so fascinating.
That's that was what was so appealing to me. It's like, okay,
this is a real one because there's not a lot of real ones.
There's a lot of people that pretend to be on these spiritual quest,
but they really, they just want everybody to think they're spiritual.
It's like you were talking about the pleasure.
What's the pleasure of owning records. Well,
the big pleasure was people coming over your house to think you're cool because
you have these records coolest record, man.
That's the same thing with spirituality in a lot of ways. What,
what people love is the fact that someone finds out that
you do yoga every day, right? Someone finds out that you meditate.
Someone finds out that you've read these books. The ego is so sneaky, isn't it?
Oh, it's so sneaky. And sometimes it's obvious that, like, you know,
it's like a funny story. Um, Brian Callan, when I first met him, um,
he's digital with us too. Yeah, yeah. Um, yeah. I love that guy to death.
But when I first met him and went over his house, he had an apartment, Venice,
no door knob. That door knob had been broken out.
So you could just open his door and walk in.
Anybody could open his door and people would walk.
Like he would come downstairs and there was a,
a homeless lady cooking in his kitchen. She goes, son,
you got it going on. And he was like, what? He's just eating my food.
She was just cooking food in his house. Um,
but I came over his house and he had a book. I forget what book it was.
It was something obvious, like catcher in the ride or something like that.
Sitting on this, I go, it was just sitting on his coffee table. I go,
you're not reading that book. I go, you put that book out here.
So when girls come over, they think you're smart.
And he's like, you're so right. I'm a fraud. And we were both howling laughing.
But that's a thing that people do.
Like people want a well-stocked library, not just to read those books,
read the books then, but yes, but it's also,
there's an issue where people want people to think that you're
brilliant erudite, interesting person,
because you have all these books in your house. Like that's, that's, there's a,
there's a factor in that.
They say that Jeeva or the spirit has to go through eight L elements in each
element to leave the material universe is according to the yogis.
Um,
and they get progressively double in size and the
last one, so the first one is earth.
And then that last one is ego. It's the hardest,
it's the biggest of all of them. And it's so refined. Even people,
you do altruistic things, you do, um, things for yourself, betterment.
It gets wound up in religion. It gets rounded up in diet.
It gets rounded up in politics. It gets wound up in, in race. It gets round up,
wound up in animal rights. It gets wound up in against animal. Right. You know,
everything, the Eagle is the,
is the biggest thing and you can sort of see it on a person too. And I, and,
and, and, and, um, almost better than seeing it on some,
someone else's to see it on yourself. That's like, that's the work of the Yogi.
It's trying to see ma'am I was motivated by that look.
That was ill motivated again. So yeah, it's a constant, um,
checking in with the ego. I think that was part of my, I mean, think about it.
I came from sort of like a scene where everything,
everybody had to be cool a certain way. There's certain look, a certain dress,
certain, you know, sneakers.
We wore certain haircuts we wore and now we're Adobe robe.